# Visulog

*Tool for analysis and visualization of git logs*

## Presentation

Visulog a tool for analyzing contributions from the members of a team working a a same given project hosted on a git repository. Its goal is to assist teachers for individual grading of students working as a team.

This tool can:

- compute a couple of relevant indicators such as:
  - number of lines or characters added/deleted/changed
  - number of commits
  - number of merge commits
- analyze the variations of these indicators in time: for instance sum then in a week, compute a daily average or an average in a sliding window, ...
- visualize the indicators as charts (histograms, pie charts, etc.) embedded in a generated web page.

## Already existing similar tools

- [gitstats](https://pypi.org/project/gitstats/)

## Technical means

- The charts are generated by a third party library (maybe a Java library generating pictures, or a javascript library which dynamically interprets the data).
- The data to analyze can be obtained using calls to the git CLI. For instance "git log", "git diff --numstat", and so on.

## Architecture

Visulog contains the following modules:

- data types for storing raw data directly extracted from git history, with relevant parsers
- a generator of numerical series (for the indicators mentioned above)
- a generator of web pages
- a command line program that calls the other modules using the provided command line parameters
- a shared module for configuration object definitions

## Usage

### Building the project

1. clone the repository
    ```
    git clone git@gaufre.informatique.univ-paris-diderot.fr:bled/visulog.git
    ```
   or
    ```
    git clone https://gaufre.informatique.univ-paris-diderot.fr/bled/visulog.git
    ```
2. Enter the project folder
    ```
    cd visulog
    ```
3. Only if you are on a SCRIPT computer (in one of the TP rooms):
    ```
    source SCRIPT/envsetup
    ```
    This will setup the GRADLE_OPTS environment variable so that gradle uses the SCRIPT proxy for downloading its dependencies. It will also use a custom trust store (the one installed in the system is apparently broken... ).
4. run gradle wrapper (it will download all dependencies, including gradle itself)
    ```
    ./gradlew build
    ```
### Running the software

Currently, it can be run through gradle too. In order to pass program arguments, you need to pass them behind `--args`:
```
./gradlew run --args='here are my args'
```

For instance

```
./gradlew run --args=' --help'
```

Print the commands manual

```
./gradlew run --args='--addPlugin=countCommits'
```

Will count the commits of each author in the current branch of the git repository present in the current folder (".").

```
./gradlew run --args='--addPlugin=listUncommittedChanges'
```

List all the uncommitted changes in the current repository.

```
./gradlew run --args='--addPlugin=countCommitsPerDate'
```

Count the numbers of commits made per date.

```
./gradlew run --args='--addPlugin=countLinesPerFilePerAuthor'
```

Count the numbers of lines edited per file per author.

```
./gradlew run --args=' --addPlugin=countCommits --output=<filename>'
```
Show some stats such as the number of lines added and deleted or the number of commentary ...
```
./gradlew run --args=' --addPlugin=ShowStatsCommit'
```
Count the commits of each author in the current branch of the git repository present in the current folder (".") and then write the plugin output to the specified file
( --output=<filename> write the result display in the terminal of the plugin output to the specified file)

```
./gradlew run --args=' --loadConfigFile=<filename>'
```

Load configuration from the specified name (not implemented)

```
./gradlew run --args=' --justSaveConfigFile=<filename>'
```

Show different graphs showing the lignes added and deleted with some other features
```
.



Save the current configuration to the specified name (not implemented)

## Membres
Asma MOKEDDES: mokeddes.asma@outlook.fr

ABDELLATIF Kenzi : k.abdellatif03@gmail.com

Nolan Bled: nolan.bled@outlook.fr

SIMONNET william : william.mpsim@gmail.com

LUONG Vi Long: luongvilong2001@gmail.com
